you
most manufacturers will have a launch
for any new modules that they've got
coming out and when Kawasaki asked me to
the launch for their first ever scooter
of course talked to the chance it was an
early start 6:30 a.m. flight from
Gatwick I had to get up at 3:30 but when
we finally got here to the yellow hotel
in Lagos Portugal it was totally worth
it it's a five-star hotel it's right on
the seafront
amongst mountains but then you've also
got the hustle and bustle of the nearby
town we pretty much had the day to
ourselves so we went for lunch had a
little mooch around the hotel got
familiar with the surroundings and then
in the evening it was down to business
and we had a presentation
you
just being for dinner and the
presentation from Kara Zaki all about
j300 now they say that it's a great
commuter bike but not only that it's
brilliant providing into the countryside
on a weekend with a pillion on the back
and it's still really comfortable when
you do go to Mars so I'll be looking
forward to finding out whether that's
true tomorrow but now it's time for some
shut-eye I know good night
right so you know I said that it was
sunny Portugal well it serves me right
for showing off because it is actually
drizzly this morning I was a
thunderstorm outside about 5:00 a.m.
they let i gets clearing up and i'm
ready to go and have some fun being
allocate my bike it's over there so
let's see what it's like
you
first we did some town riding in Lagos
which is just a couple of miles down the
road it was really busy lots of traffic
cars pulling out on you
pedestrians not looking where they're
going it's not too dissimilar to what
you get at home
we spent some time in the town getting
some photos doing some ride bys getting
some video and then we headed into the
mountains which was about an hour's ride
to our next photo stop
I know a lot of you say what's important
going to Portugal and why dear a bike
around in the Sun on nice roads and well
actually it's raining it's freezing it's
so cold and windy and the roads are
really greasy so I've got a good idea of
how it's going to be in the UK it's
really comfortable to ride just really
called moaning but so far so good
comfortable after an hour slack copy bad
from there we had a half an hour wet
ride to a beautiful cliff top restaurant
there I got to chat Martin Lambert he's
actually the communications manager for
Kawasaki Europe
Martin wine kisaki decided to enter the
scooter market now one of the things you
have to consider is actually in Europe
the market between motorcycles and
scooters is roughly 50/50 so there's a
huge market there a lot of people will
already know about J concept the
innovative future concept that was
introduced at the Tokyo Motor Show
that's probably at the end of our
thinking about personal transport
solution especially for city riding at
the beginning we have j300 the bike that
we're introducing now so for kawasaki
it's not really just about being a
scooter it's about personal transport
solutions as well so whose Kawasaki
marketing the day 300 out what type
rider a lot of different riders so we
will obviously be talking to people who
are confirmed scooter riders or interest
in scooters but will be also talking to
people who are thinking about taking up
running for the very first time who
maybe want a second machine they've
already got a motorcycle and we want
another machine perhaps to commute on to
air is of huge significance there young
riders because not just Kawasaki with
the whole motorcycle industry needs
young riders and also women riders on a
different note these launches are seems
to be a lot planning involved how do we
keeping out here
in the case of a launch it probably
takes six to eight months to do so there
is a lot a lot of things to consider we
consider the accommodation the roads the
transport links all sorts of things you
just see the tip of the iceberg you
don't see the hotels or the locations
that we've projected you don't see the
part of the map where the road stop
being so interesting that we rejected
and started again they asked what five
years we've introduced fourteen new
motorcycles to the market so sometimes
you go launch two weeks launch two weeks
lon so it's a lot of pressure
it's got a 299 cc single-cylinder
four-stroke liquid-cooled engine
producing 28 PS and reaching top speeds
of 75 miles per hour what was really
interesting is that kawasaki have
actually partnered with kim co and kim
Kota the second largest seller for
scooters in the world what was also
interesting to find out is that over 50%
of bike sales are scooters the market is
huge it is a great day a little bit cold
but all in all a really good day to get
to know the bike in terms of handling
the bikes really well-balanced
I found it really light and easy to
control the cut out platform in the foot
plate means that your legs are parallel
when you're stationary so you not like
John Wayne and I think that's a really
nice touch the seats super comfortable I
did find out I was sliding down it a
little bit and I like the footplate to
be a little bit longer I like to stretch
my legs out when I'm riding I think if
you've got big feet or you're
particularly tall you might find this
bike a little bit cramped
this bike is really economical kawasaki
actually won't give an MPG but I did
about 90 miles today tank went down by
2/5 so I reckon it must do 60 to 70
miles per gallon which is pretty
impressive things that make this bike
great it's got loads of storage
underneath the seat you can fit a full
face helmet and an a4 document case how
can I be able to get my handbag in there
as well it's handy being able to carry
an extra helmet around with you
there's been times when out with friends
and I haven't been able to give them a
lift home don't tell you that it's also
got a little glovebox which is near the
handlebars and there's a 12-volt power
supply there so you can chuck your phone
in and charge it on the go which is
pretty neat if you're a bit of a storage
fiend like I am then there are more
storage optional extras a couple of top
boxes to choose from and also a bag that
fits in between your legs talking about
optional extras you can get a larger
screen handlebar MOFs and those stupid
weather aprons that people always wear
around London
kawasaki wanted this scooter to have
elements of motorcycle styling I think
they've really managed to do that there
were times when I was riding along
looking in the mirror and the bikes
behind me if you looked really quickly
looked a little bit like a Zed x10 it
looks really sporty futuristic stealth
looking and I think it's possibly one of
the best-looking scooters on the market
so what's it like to actually ride well
I think if you didn't know that this is
a 299 CC and you got on it you perhaps
think that I had a bigger engine I was
cruising 70 miles per hour at points and
I felt like it still had more to give
it's got loads of low-end torque it's
quick of the lights as you'd expect it
to be that punch is going to be ideal
when you're at the traffic lights and
you want to beat the city traffic
top-end speed is perfect motorway riding
longer journeys and it's even more
comfortable than my Harley which I've
got a home which says a lot I didn't get
to take a pillion today nobody will get
on the back of me but I think it'd be
comfortable for them because they've got
a big seat their own foot pegs so you
can distribute their weight evenly which
makes it better for the rider because
obviously the handling is better
something that really frustrates me is
the divide between scooters and most
cyclists the rest of Europe gets it so
why don't we I actually think that most
most cyclists would enjoy riding scooter
but they just don't want to be seen on
one one thing that Martin said to me was
that Kawasaki of really trying to get
younger riders onto bikes and women as
well and I think that the fact that you
can buy the j300 on an a2 license will
help this it comes in silver or black at
4049 pounds or for an extra hundred quid
you can get the graphics special edition
which is what I was on today
kawasaki says that the j300 appeals to
sports minded riders who are looking for
a daily dose of fun for their commute
and let's not forget about cows a Keyes
brand loyalty the scooters going to do
really well for people who are looking
for a second bike maybe they've got zx10
they use at the weekends and they want
something a little bit more convenient
for their daily commute
I've had a great couple of days here
with Kawasaki they've been really
accommodating the hotel's beautiful
Portugal was great apart from the
weather and it's really interesting to
see what goes on behind the scenes at
launch I really think that j300 is going
to appeal to loads of different types of
riders and with those looks it's
definitely going to stand out
you